Telemetry docs (#1385)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/security/outbound-requests/telemetry.md

---
title: Telemetry
description: Telemetry from Octopus Server and what is included
position: 25
---

Telemetry reporting is enabled by default. We use the data we receive to inform our decisions and to help us make a better product. You can opt-out of sending telemetry by navigating to **{{Configuration,Telemetry}}** in Octopus.

> When the "Telemetry Reporting" option is enabled, Octopus will make a HTTPS request, this request includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the **Telemetry Reporting** option is enabled, Octopus will make an HTTPS request, this request includes:
```

- The current Octopus Deploy version number that you are running.
- A unique installation ID (read more below).
- Telemetry data payload

> When the "Telemetry Reporting" option is enabled, we'll send some specific aggregate criteria along with the request. This has evolved a bit over time, so it depends on the version you are running:

Reviewer: The wording `When the "Telemetry Reporting" option is enabled` feels repetitive given its mentioned verbatim just before the preceding bullet points.

```suggestion
In addition, we'll send some specific aggregate criteria along with the request. This has evolved a bit over time, so it depends on the version you are running:
```

| Whether the server is running in a container | 2020.1.21 |
| The usage of step configuration options | 2020.2.5 |
| Aggregated type, result code and duration of database and api calls | 2020.2.14 |
| Counts of specific kinds of events that occur internally, e.g. usage of deprecated code paths, errors | 2020.3.0 |
| Structured Configuration Variable usage across projects including how many steps have Structured Configuration Variables enabled and what file extensions are being used | 2020.4.0 |
| OS Architecture of Deployment Target Tentacles | 2021.1.0 |
| The number of Projects that are version controlled | 2021.2.0 |

The installation ID is a GUID that we generate when Octopus is installed. This GUID is simply a way for us to get a rough idea of the number of installations there are in the wild, and which versions people are using, so we can make decisions about backwards compatibility support.

Together, this information helps us when making decisions about the product. For example, we expected users to only have a handful of machines, but the statistics tell us that some customers have over 900; we now take that into account when designing the user experience.

> Be assured that names, descriptions, URI's and so on are _never_ included. You can download a preview of the data that will be sent by clicking on the "Download Preview" button on the **{{Configuration,Telemetry}}** page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be assured that names, descriptions, URI's, and so on are _never_ included. You can download a preview of the data that will be sent by clicking on the **Download Preview** button on the **{{Configuration,Telemetry}}** page
```
